docs: Improve Content Security Policy documentation (#80580)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/02-guides/content-security-policy.mdx

### Why use a nonce?

CSP can block both inline and external scripts to prevent attacks. A nonce lets you safely allow specific scripts to run—only if they include the matching nonce value.

> If an attacker wanted to load an script into your page, they'd need to guess the nonce value. That's why the nonce must be unpredictable and unique for every request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an attacker wanted to load a script into your page, they'd need to guess the nonce value. That's why the nonce must be unpredictable and unique for every request.
```

}
```

### How nonces work in Next.js

When you set a nonce in your CSP header via middleware, Next.js automatically detects and applies it to the appropriate script and style tags during server-side rendering. Here's how the process works:

1. **Middleware generates nonce**: Your middleware creates a unique nonce and adds it to both the CSP header and a custom `x-nonce` header
2. **Next.js extracts nonce**: During rendering, Next.js parses the CSP header to extract the nonce value using the pattern `'nonce-{value}'`
3. **Automatic application**: Next.js automatically applies the extracted nonce to:
   - Framework scripts (React, Next.js runtime)
   - Page-specific JavaScript bundles
   - Inline styles and scripts generated by Next.js
   - Any `<Script>` components that specify the nonce prop

> 

Reviewer: We need to add a note that this only works dynamic rendering

}
```

### How nonces work in Next.js

To use a nonce, your page must be **dynamically rendered**. This is because Next.js applies nonces during **server-side rendering**, based on the CSP header present in the request. Static pages are generated at build time, when no request or response headers exist—so no nonce can be injected.

Here’s how nonce support works in a dynamically rendered page:

1. **Middleware generates a nonce**: Your middleware creates a unique nonce for the request, adds it to your `Content-Security-Policy` header, and also sets it in a custom `x-nonce` header.
2. **Next.js extracts the nonce**: During rendering, Next.js parses the `Content-Security-Policy` header and extracts the nonce using the `'nonce-{value}'` pattern.
3. **Nonce is applied automatically**: Next.js attaches the nonce to:
   - Framework scripts (React, Next.js runtime)
   - Page-specific JavaScript bundles
   - Inline styles and scripts generated by Next.js
   - Any `<Script>` components using the `nonce` prop

Because of this automatic behavior, you don’t need to manually add a nonce to each tag.

> ### Forcing dynamic rendering

Reviewer 2: we're going to be moving away from `force-dynamic` in the upcoming cacheComponents work. I think we should suggest the `await connection()` [pattern](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection) instead.

1. **Middleware generates a nonce**: Your middleware creates a unique nonce for the request, adds it to your `Content-Security-Policy` header, and also sets it in a custom `x-nonce` header.
2. **Next.js extracts the nonce**: During rendering, Next.js parses the `Content-Security-Policy` header and extracts the nonce using the `'nonce-{value}'` pattern.
3. **Nonce is applied automatically**: Next.js attaches the nonce to:
   - Framework scripts (React, Next.js runtime)
   - Page-specific JavaScript bundles
   - Inline styles and scripts generated by Next.js
   - Any `<Script>` components using the `nonce` prop

Because of this automatic behavior, you don’t need to manually add a nonce to each tag.

### Forcing dynamic rendering

If you're using nonces, you may need to explicitly opt pages into dynamic rendering:

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
// Force dynamic rendering for pages using nonces
import { connection } from 'next/server'

export default function Page() {
  await connection()
  // Your page content
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx" switcher
// Force dynamic rendering for pages using nonces
import { connection } from 'next/server'

> export default function Page() {

Reviewer 2: same here

</AppOnly>

## Static vs Dynamic Rendering with CSP

Using nonces has important implications for how your Next.js application renders:

### Dynamic Rendering Requirement

When you use nonces in your CSP, **all pages become dynamically rendered**. This means:

> - Pages cannot be statically generated at build time

Reviewer: This is a bit nuanced, the build will go ahead, and you'll only run into errors at runtime. Hopefully e2e catches those.

Reviewer: Probably worth adding that PPR is also a no-go here, the static shell scripts won't have the nonce.

### Performance Implications

The shift from static to dynamic rendering affects performance:

- **Slower initial page loads**: Pages must be generated on each request
- **Increased server load**: Every request requires server-side rendering
- **No CDN caching**: Dynamic pages cannot be cached at the edge by default
- **Higher hosting costs**: More server resources needed for dynamic rendering

### When to use nonces

Consider nonces when:
- You have strict security requirements that prohibit `'unsafe-inline'`
- Your application handles sensitive data
- You need to allow specific inline scripts while blocking others
- Compliance requirements mandate strict CSP

<AppOnly>

### Forcing dynamic rendering

If you're using nonces, you may need to explicitly opt pages into dynamic rendering:

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
// Force dynamic rendering for pages using nonces
export const dynamic = 'force-dynamic'

export default function Page() {
  // Your page content
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx" switcher
// Force dynamic rendering for pages using nonces
export const dynamic = 'force-dynamic'

export default function Page() {
  // Your page content
}
```

</AppOnly>

> ## Hash-based CSP with Subresource Integrity (Experimental)

Reviewer: Let's also wrap this section in AppOnly

    object-src 'none';
    base-uri 'self';
    form-action 'self';
    frame-ancestors 'none';
    upgrade-insecure-requests;
`
  
  // Rest of middleware implementation
}
```

### Production Deployment

Common issues in production:

- **Nonce not applied**: Ensure your middleware runs on all necessary routes
- **Static assets blocked**: Verify your CSP allows Next.js static assets
- **Third-party scripts**: Add necessary domains to your CSP policy

## Troubleshooting

### Error Pages and CSP

Static error pages (404, 500) may not work with strict CSP because they don't go through your middleware. Solutions:

<AppOnly>

1. **Custom error pages**: Create custom error pages that support dynamic rendering:

```tsx filename="app/not-found.tsx" switcher
export const dynamic = 'force-dynamic'

export default function NotFound() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Not Found</h2>
      <p>Could not find requested resource</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/not-found.jsx" switcher
export const dynamic = 'force-dynamic'

export default function NotFound() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Not Found</h2>
      <p>Could not find requested resource</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

> 2. **Error boundary**: Use error boundaries to handle CSP violations gracefully

Reviewer: How would this look like?

Reviewer: There's an event `securitypolicyviolation` - but how does it link to `Error Pages and CSP`, with error boundaries 🤔

      <Component {...pageProps} />
      <Script
        src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js"
        strategy="afterInteractive"
        nonce={nonce}
      />
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

Update your CSP to allow third-party domains:

```ts filename="middleware.ts" switcher
const cspHeader = `
  default-src 'self';
  script-src 'self' 'nonce-${nonce}' 'strict-dynamic' https://www.googletagmanager.com;
  connect-src 'self' https://www.google-analytics.com;
  img-src 'self' data: https://www.google-analytics.com;
`
```

```js filename="middleware.js" switcher
const cspHeader = `
  default-src 'self';
  script-src 'self' 'nonce-${nonce}' 'strict-dynamic' https://www.googletagmanager.com;
  connect-src 'self' https://www.google-analytics.com;
  img-src 'self' data: https://www.google-analytics.com;
`
```

### Common CSP Violations

1. **Inline styles**: Use CSS-in-JS libraries that support nonces or move styles to external files
2. **Dynamic imports**: Ensure dynamic imports are allowed in your script-src policy
3. **WebAssembly**: Add `'wasm-unsafe-eval'` if using WebAssembly
4. **Service workers**: Add appropriate policies for service worker scripts

## Examples

> ### Static Site with Hash-based CSP

Reviewer: AppOnly too

For static sites that need strict CSP, use the experimental SRI feature:

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  output: 'export', // Static export

>   experimental: {

Reviewer: https://nextjs.org/docs/app/guides/static-exports#unsupported-features headers are not supported in export mode.

Reviewer: but export mode with `sri` should be fine

  
  const cspHeader = `
    default-src 'self';
    script-src 'self' 'nonce-${nonce}' 'strict-dynamic' ${isDev ? "'unsafe-eval'" : ''};
    style-src 'self' 'nonce-${nonce}' ${isDev ? "'unsafe-inline'" : ''};
    img-src 'self' blob: data:;
    font-src 'self';
    object-src 'none';
    base-uri 'self';
    form-action 'self';
    frame-ancestors 'none';
    upgrade-insecure-requests;
  `

  const contentSecurityPolicyHeaderValue = cspHeader
    .replace(/\s{2,}/g, ' ')
    .trim()

  const requestHeaders = new Headers(request.headers)
  requestHeaders.set('x-nonce', nonce)
  requestHeaders.set('Content-Security-Policy', contentSecurityPolicyHeaderValue)

  const response = NextResponse.next({
    request: { headers: requestHeaders },
  })
  response.headers.set('Content-Security-Policy', contentSecurityPolicyHeaderValue)

  return response
}

export const config = {
  matcher: [
    {
      source: '/((?!api|_next/static|_next/image|favicon.ico).*)',
      missing: [
        { type: 'header', key: 'next-router-prefetch' },
        { type: 'header', key: 'purpose', value: 'prefetch' },
      ],
    },
  ],
}
```

### Mixed Approach for Different Page Types

> You can combine both approaches for different parts of your application:

Reviewer: Does this really work?

    object-src 'none';
    base-uri 'self';
    form-action 'self';
    frame-ancestors 'none';
    upgrade-insecure-requests;
`

module.exports = {
  experimental: {
    sri: {
      algorithm: 'sha256',
    },
  },
  async headers() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/(.*)',
        headers: [
          {
            key: 'Content-Security-Policy',
            value: cspHeader.replace(/\n/g, ''),
          },
        ],
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Benefits of SRI over nonces

- **Static generation**: Pages can be statically generated and cached
- **CDN compatibility**: Static pages work with CDN caching
- **Better performance**: No server-side rendering required for each request
- **Build-time security**: Hashes are generated at build time, ensuring integrity

### Limitations of SRI

- **Experimental**: Feature may change or be removed
- **Webpack only**: Not available with Turbopack
- **App Router only**: Not supported in Pages Router
- **Build-time only**: Cannot handle dynamically generated scripts

</AppOnly>

## Development vs Production Considerations

CSP implementation differs between development and production environments:

### Development Environment

> In development, you may need to allow `'unsafe-eval'` for Hot Module Replacement (HMR):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In development, you will need to enable `'unsafe-eval'` to support APIs that provide additional debugging information:
```
